# The Atomic Node Abstraction

Draconic UI builds and relies on a core abstraction- the Atomic Node. A Node is an element of a UI (be it graphical or not) that forms, with other nodes, a boundary between the user and the system. A node can be passed to other nodes that accept children in order to make a scene graph, and two nodes that accept the same data and have the same behavior semantics can be used interchangeably, (ie, the task of selecting from an exclusive set of Strings can be presented as a group of radio buttons, a drop-down menu, an auto-completing text-box that only accepts specific input, or a spinner, among others) leaving the platform-specific application implementation free to use whatever widgets and nodes are best for that task on that platform.

The Atomic Node is named such because it follows the same principle as Clojure's Atoms (stateful with identity and atomic reads/writes) *and* because each Atomic Node is the smallest a UI component can get while still being able to communicate and receive the required information. Every framework has a laundry list of individual components (some that might extend a "Node" class) that can be used to build up a UI. An Atomic Node is a collection of these just sufficient to be actually useful. For frameworks that use OOP classes to represent nodes, these classes are basically nodes. For others, like HTML, a node would be a single element or small group of elements.

Put another way, The Atomic Node is like a platform-inspecific implementation-inspecific generic controller for a single aspect of the view, intended to be used *by the model* rather then the other way around. 